.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 2023
.\"     John McCue <jmccue@jmcunx.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH JCAT 1 "2022-12-27" "JMC" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jcat - print data from a file slowly
.SH SYNOPSIS
jcat [OPTIONS] [FILE...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read data and echos it out to stdout,
pausing a specified number of milliseconds
between line prints.
.PP
If no files (FILE) are specified on the command line or
if FILE has name '-', stdin (Standard Input) is used.
.TP
-e file
Optional, if used, write error messages to file 'file'.
If not specified, errors written to stderr.
.TP
-f
Optional, Force file create.
Create file even if the target file exists.
.TP
-h
Show brief help and exit.
.TP
-r n
Optional, after 'n' Reads, pause for
the specified milliseconds (see -s below).
If not specified default to 100 reads.
.TP
-s n
Optional, if used, after the specified number of Records
are read, sleep for 'n' milliseconds (see -r above).
If not supplied, defaults to 500 milliseconds.
.TP
-V
Output version information and exit.
.TP
-v
Optional, Verbose Level.
Print information about the run,
default do not show run messages.
Can be specified multiple times,
each specification increases verbose level:
.nf
    Level  Meaning
    -----  ------------------------------------------------
    = 0    Only show Error Messages
    >= 1   Show File Summary other information on stderr
    >= 2   Show headings on Output for each file processed.
           This means lines will be added to the Output File
           showing what Input File was the source.
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If you specify '-e', in some cases info will still be
written to stderr.
This can occur during Command Line Argument Processing.
.SH SEE-ALSO
cat(1),
head(1),
less(1),
more(1),
pg(1),
pr(1),
setvbuf(3),
sh(1),
tail(1),
vis(1)
.SH ERROR-CODES
.nf
0 success
1 processing error or help/rev displayed
.fi
